---
title: "Tao Te Ching"
translator: "C Spurgeon Medhurst"
source: "[sacred-texts.com](https://sacred-texts.com/tao/mt/index.htm)"
isbn: "978-1-64429-025-4"
part: 1
chapter: 34
---
Supreme is the Tao! All pervasive; it can be on the left hand and on the right.

All things depend on it for life, and it denies none.

Its purposes accomplished, it claims no credit.

It clothes and fosters [^1] all things, but claims no lordship.

Ever desireless, it may be named 'The Indivisible.'

All things revert to it, but it claims no lordship. It may be named 'The Supreme.'

Because to the end it does not seek supremacy; it is able to accomplish great things. [^2]

Says an unknown pagan quoted by Philoponus--"All things are full of God: on all sides hath He ears, ears that hear, can hear through rocks, and compass earth, and pierce through man himself to hear the smallest thought he hides within his breast."

And says a modern theologian: [**] "The universe is God living his life, and living it by limitation. But beyond and behind are the infinite resources of his being."

## Footnotes

[^1] There is an alternative reading--"lovingly nourishes."

[^2] In many editions this sentence refers to the Sage, and not to the Tao. Commenting on the conclusion of the chapter Su Cheh says, "Who makes himself great is small." See Matt. xx. 26, 28.

"Whither shall I go from Thy spirit?
Or whither shall I flee from Thy presence?
If I ascend into heaven, thou art there:
If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, thou art there.
If I take the wings of the morning,
And dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
Even there shall Thy hand lead me,
And thy right hand shall hold me."
(Psa. cxxxix. 7-10.)

^60:\* R. J. Campbell, B. A.