---
title: Tao Te Ching
year: 1905
translator: C. Spurgeon Medhurst
code: med
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/mt/index.htm
}
isbn: 978-1-64429-025-4
part: 1
chapter: 23
---
Few words are natural.

A whirlwind does not outlast the morning; a deluge does not outlast the day. Who produces these?--The Heaven-Earth. If the Heaven-Earth cannot produce lasting phenomena, how much less can man?

Wherefore settling everything in accordance with the Tao, embodying the Tao they become identified with the Tao. Embodying its virtue, they become identified with virtue. Embodying loss, they become identified with loss.

Identified with the Tao, they joyfully accept the Tao; identified with virtue, they joyfully accept virtue; identified with loss, they joyfully accept loss.

If sincerity is lacking it is because of superficial faith.

Nothing reveals man's slight hold on himself like his unending torrential flow of speech. According to the Apostle James unbridled tongues are signs of irreligious hearts (i. 26). An orderly, calm progression--not sudden spurts of spasmodic eloquence--is the example set by Nature for man's imitation. The whirlwind and the deluge do not last. Man's noisy insincerity is the result of his superficiality. This leads him to ofttimes content himself with less than the best, to identify himself with what is positive loss, or with what is a mere reflection of the real. God only speaks in the heart of him who, independent of outward circumstance, dwells "in the secret place of the Most High," "under the shadow of the Almighty." (Psalm. xci, 1.) "For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy:

I dwell in the high and holy place with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones." (Isa. lvii, 15.)