src/content/translations/lge/10.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 10
---
1. When the intelligent and animal souls are held together in one
embrace, they can be kept from separating. When one gives undivided
attention to the (vital) breath, and brings it to the utmost degree
of pliancy, he can become as a (tender) babe. When he has cleansed
away the most mysterious sights (of his imagination), he can become
without a flaw. 

2. In loving the people and ruling the state, cannot he proceed without
any (purpose of) action? In the opening and shutting of his gates
of heaven, cannot he do so as a female bird? While his intelligence
reaches in every direction, cannot he (appear to) be without knowledge?

3. (The Tao) produces (all things) and nourishes them; it produces
them and does not claim them as its own; it does all, and yet does
not boast of it; it presides over all, and yet does not control them.
This is what is called 'The mysterious Quality' (of the Tao).

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/10.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 10
---
When the intelligent and animal souls are held together in one embrace, they can be kept from separating. When one gives undivided attention to the (vital) breath, and brings it to the utmost degree of pliancy, he can become as a (tender) babe. When he has cleansed away the most mysterious sights (of his imagination), he can become without a flaw. 

In loving the people and ruling the state, cannot he proceed without any (purpose of) action? In the opening and shutting of his gates of heaven, cannot he do so as a female bird? While his intelligence reaches in every direction, cannot he (appear to) be without knowledge?

(The Tao) produces (all things) and nourishes them; it produces them and does not claim them as its own; it does all, and yet does not boast of it; it presides over all, and yet does not control them.
This is what is called 'The mysterious Quality' (of the Tao).

# CHAPTER The thirty spokes unite in the one nave; but it is on the empty space (for the axle), that the use of the wheel depends.
Clay is fashioned into vessels; but it is on their empty hollowness, that their use depends. The door and windows are cut out (from the walls) to form an apartment; but it is on the empty space (within),
that its use depends. Therefore, what has a (positive) existence serves for profitable adaptation, and what has not that for (actual) usefulness.
