src/content/translations/lge/13.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 13
---
1. Favour and disgrace would seem equally to be feared; honour and
great calamity, to be regarded as personal conditions (of the same
kind). 

2. What is meant by speaking thus of favour and disgrace? Disgrace
is being in a low position (after the enjoyment of favour). The getting
that (favour) leads to the apprehension (of losing it), and the losing
it leads to the fear of (still greater calamity):--this is what is
meant by saying that favour and disgrace would seem equally to be
feared. And what is meant by saying that honour and great calamity
are to be (similarly) regarded as personal conditions? What makes
me liable to great calamity is my having the body (which I call myself);
if I had not the body, what great calamity could come to me?

3. Therefore he who would administer the kingdom, honouring it as
he honours his own person, may be employed to govern it, and he who
would administer it with the love which he bears to his own person
may be entrusted with it.

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/13.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 13
---
We look at it, and we do not see it, and we name it 'the Equable.'
We listen to it, and we do not hear it, and we name it 'the Inaudible.'
We try to grasp it, and do not get hold of it, and we name it 'the Subtle.' With these three qualities, it cannot be made the subject of description; and hence we blend them together and obtain The One.

Its upper part is not bright, and its lower part is not obscure.
Ceaseless in its action, it yet cannot be named, and then it again returns and becomes nothing. This is called the Form of the Formless, and the Semblance of the Invisible; this is called the Fleeting and Indeterminable. 

We meet it and do not see its Front; we follow it, and do not see its Back. When we can lay hold of the Tao of old to direct the things of the present day, and are able to know it as it was of old in the beginning, this is called (unwinding) the clue of Tao.
