src/content/translations/lge/22.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 22
---
1. The partial becomes complete; the crooked, straight; the empty,
full; the worn out, new. He whose (desires) are few gets them; he
whose (desires) are many goes astray. 

2. Therefore the sage holds in his embrace the one thing (of humility),
and manifests it to all the world. He is free from self- display,
and therefore he shines; from self-assertion, and therefore he is
distinguished; from self-boasting, and therefore his merit is acknowledged;
from self-complacency, and therefore he acquires superiority. It is
because he is thus free from striving that therefore no one in the
world is able to strive with him. 

3. That saying of the ancients that 'the partial becomes complete'
was not vainly spoken:--all real completion is comprehended under
it.

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/22.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 22
---
Abstaining from speech marks him who is obeying the spontaneity of his nature. A violent wind does not last for a whole morning; a sudden rain does not last for the whole day. To whom is it that these (two) things are owing? To Heaven and Earth. If Heaven and Earth cannot make such (spasmodic) actings last long, how much less can man!

Therefore when one is making the Tao his business, those who are also pursuing it, agree with him in it, and those who are making the manifestation of its course their object agree with him in that; while even those who are failing in both these things agree with him where they fail. 

Hence, those with whom he agrees as to the Tao have the happiness of attaining to it; those with whom he agrees as to its manifestation have the happiness of attaining to it; and those with whom he agrees in their failure have also the happiness of attaining (to the Tao).
(But) when there is not faith sufficient (on his part), a want of faith (in him) ensues (on the part of the others).
