src/content/translations/lge/27.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 27
---
1. The skilful traveller leaves no traces of his wheels or footsteps;
the skilful speaker says nothing that can be found fault with or blamed;
the skilful reckoner uses no tallies; the skilful closer needs no
bolts or bars, while to open what he has shut will be impossible;
the skilful binder uses no strings or knots, while to unloose what
he has bound will be impossible. In the same way the sage is always
skilful at saving men, and so he does not cast away any man; he is
always skilful at saving things, and so he does not cast away anything.
This is called 'Hiding the light of his procedure.' 

2. Therefore the man of skill is a master (to be looked up to) by
him who has not the skill; and he who has not the skill is the helper
of (the reputation of) him who has the skill. If the one did not honour
his master, and the other did not rejoice in his helper, an (observer),
though intelligent, might greatly err about them. This is called 'The
utmost degree of mystery.'

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/27.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 27
---
Who knows his manhood's strength, 
Yet still his female feebleness maintains; 
As to one channel flow the many drains, 
All come to him, yea, all beneath the sky. 
Thus he the constant excellence retains; 
The simple child again, free from all stains. 

Who knows how white attracts, 
Yet always keeps himself within black's shade, 
The pattern of humility displayed, 
Displayed in view of all beneath the sky; 
He in the unchanging excellence arrayed, 
Endless return to man's first state has made. 

Who knows how glory shines, 
Yet loves disgrace, nor e'er for it is pale; 
Behold his presence in a spacious vale, 
To which men come from all beneath the sky. 
The unchanging excellence completes its tale; 
The simple infant man in him we hail. 

The unwrought material, when divided and distributed, forms vessels.
The sage, when employed, becomes the Head of all the Officers (of government); and in his greatest regulations he employs no violent measures.
