src/content/translations/lge/30.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 30
---
1. He who would assist a lord of men in harmony with the Tao will
not assert his mastery in the kingdom by force of arms. Such a course
is sure to meet with its proper return. 

2. Wherever a host is stationed, briars and thorns spring up. In the
sequence of great armies there are sure to be bad years.

3. A skilful (commander) strikes a decisive blow, and stops. He does
not dare (by continuing his operations) to assert and complete his
mastery. He will strike the blow, but will be on his guard against
being vain or boastful or arrogant in consequence of it. He strikes
it as a matter of necessity; he strikes it, but not from a wish for
mastery. 

4. When things have attained their strong maturity they become old.
This may be said to be not in accordance with the Tao: and what is
not in accordance with it soon comes to an end.

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/30.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 1
chapter: 30
---
Now arms, however beautiful, are instruments of evil omen, hateful, it may be said, to all creatures. Therefore they who have the Tao do not like to employ them. 

The superior man ordinarily considers the left hand the most honourable place, but in time of war the right hand. Those sharp weapons are instruments of evil omen, and not the instruments of the superior man;--he uses them only on the compulsion of necessity. Calm and repose are what he prizes; victory (by force of arms) is to him undesirable.
To consider this desirable would be to delight in the slaughter of men; and he who delights in the slaughter of men cannot get his will in the kingdom. 

On occasions of festivity to be on the left hand is the prized position; on occasions of mourning, the right hand. The second in command of the army has his place on the left; the general commanding in chief has his on the right;--his place, that is, is assigned to him as in the rites of mourning. He who has killed multitudes of men should weep for them with the bitterest grief; and the victor in battle has his place (rightly) according to those rites.
