src/content/translations/lge/52.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 2
chapter: 52
---
1. (The Tao) which originated all under the sky is to be considered
as the mother of them all. 

2. When the mother is found, we know what her children should be.
When one knows that he is his mother's child, and proceeds to guard
(the qualities of) the mother that belong to him, to the end of his
life he will be free from all peril. 

3. Let him keep his mouth closed, and shut up the portals (of his
nostrils), and all his life he will be exempt from laborious exertion.
Let him keep his mouth open, and (spend his breath) in the promotion
of his affairs, and all his life there will be no safety for him.

4. The perception of what is small is (the secret of clear- sightedness;
the guarding of what is soft and tender is (the secret of) strength.

5. Who uses well his light, 
Reverting to its (source so) bright, 
Will from his body ward all blight, 
And hides the unchanging from men's sight.

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/52.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 2
chapter: 52
---
What (Tao's) skilful planter plants 
Can never be uptorn; 
What his skilful arms enfold, 
From him can ne'er be borne. 
Sons shall bring in lengthening line, 
Sacrifices to his shrine. 

Tao when nursed within one's self, 
His vigour will make true; 
And where the family it rules 
What riches will accrue! 
The neighbourhood where it prevails 
In thriving will abound; 
And when 'tis seen throughout the state, 
Good fortune will be found. 
Employ it the kingdom o'er, 
And men thrive all around. 

In this way the effect will be seen in the person, by the observation of different cases; in the family; in the neighbourhood; in the state;
and in the kingdom. 

How do I know that this effect is sure to hold thus all under the sky? By this (method of observation).
