src/content/translations/lge/59.md, before:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 2
chapter: 59
---
1. For regulating the human (in our constitution) and rendering the
(proper) service to the heavenly, there is nothing like moderation.

2. It is only by this moderation that there is effected an early return
(to man's normal state). That early return is what I call the repeated
accumulation of the attributes (of the Tao). With that repeated accumulation
of those attributes, there comes the subjugation (of every obstacle
to such return). Of this subjugation we know not what shall be the
limit; and when one knows not what the limit shall be, he may be the
ruler of a state. 

3. He who possesses the mother of the state may continue long. His
case is like that (of the plant) of which we say that its roots are
deep and its flower stalks firm:--this is the way to secure that its
enduring life shall long be seen.

Commit message:

Cleaned up some more formatting issues, fixed the font issue where apostrophes were coming in with an additional space character... it was an issue with the font being used. part 2

src/content/translations/lge/59.md, after:

---
title: Tao Te Ching by Lao-tzu (excerpted from Volume 39 of the Sacred Books of the East.)
year: 1890
translator: James Legge
code: lge
source: {
  label: sacred-texts.com,
  url: https://sacred-texts.com/tao/taote.htm
}
isbn: 978-1402185915
part: 2
chapter: 59
---
What makes a great state is its being (like) a low-lying, down-
flowing (stream);--it becomes the centre to which tend (all the small states) under heaven. 

(To illustrate from) the case of all females:--the female always overcomes the male by her stillness. Stillness may be considered (a sort of) abasement. 

Thus it is that a great state, by condescending to small states, gains them for itself; and that small states, by abasing themselves to a great state, win it over to them. In the one case the abasement leads to gaining adherents, in the other case to procuring favour.

The great state only wishes to unite men together and nourish them;
a small state only wishes to be received by, and to serve, the other.
Each gets what it desires, but the great state must learn to abase itself.
